# S06

Author : Sylvain Julmy

## Exercise 1

### a)
The cyclomatic complexity is a metrics that tell us about the branching components in our programms. Branching compoments means when the program as multiple path available. For example, a if-elseif-else statement can bring the program to the same end point, but he can take multiple different path and each of them can make various side-effect, hand so on.

An high cyclomatic complexity usually means that our unit tests should have more cases because an error can occur in a path that is not used during the testing process.

Benefits of reducing cyclomatic complexity :
* reducing the coupling of code, which improve the code modification without having to concern about other code.
* increase the code understanding
* improve the testing -> number of test case is reduce

The drawbacks are the opposite of what it's written above, a high cyclomatic complexity leads to a heavely coupling code which is not easely updatable since we have to check a lot of cases.

### b)
* Code coverage : it's a percent of the code that is tested by our unit testing. A 50% code coverage mean that half of the line we have written are using during the tests.
* Number of line of code : when it is related to a function, a function with too many line of code is usually very complex and should be seprated into smaller function to increase the maintainability of our code.
* Coupling : it's the degree of interdependence between modules. When coupling is high, we can't easely modified a module without drawbacks.
* Halstead : it's a metric that measure the implementation of algorithm in diffenrent language. It is bases on static analysis using the number of operators used, the number of distinct operatores, ...

### c)
I believe that metrics do not tell us that there is a problem, but more that it might be the case, that there is a problem with our software. For example, the coupling can be very small if our software is completely independant. Another example is code coverage, if we have a file that can't be easely tested using unit testing (like code generation for a compiler), the code coverage percent would be very low.

### d)
Usually, those metrics are integrated into the development process during the test phase. If we use a continus integration tool like TravisCI, when we performed a push on the master branch, a set of software is launch in order to perform various task : compilation, integration testing, deployement, ... and part of those software could be metrics measurement. For example, codecov is a tool which performed code coverage based on unit testing and it can be automatically launch using a CI tool.