# S10

Author : Sylvain Julmy

## Exercise 1

### a)

A confusion matrix is used in order to visualize the result of a classfication problem. For example, a confusion matrix to classify a picture either in the category "Cat" or "Dog" would be a matrix 2x2 :

```
                        +--------------+
                        | Actual class |
                        +--------------+
                        | Dog   | Cat  |
+-----------------+-----+-------+------+
| Predicted class | Dog | 9     | 2    |
+                 +-----+-------+------+
|                 | Cat | 1     | 8    |
+-----------------+-----+-------+------+
```

Here, the diagonal of the matrix indicates the number of "Dog" and "Cat" which have been correctly classified. The 1 indicates the number of "Dog" that have been classified to "Cat" and 2 indicates the other direction.

In a binary decision problem, like "is the picture a cat or not", the upper right case of the matrix would indicates false positive and the bottom left case indicates false negative.

### b)

* Automate the process as much as possible : when we are dealing with a lot of data, for example millions of line of codes. There are different coding style, like indentation style or parentheses placement, which are semanticaly equivalent but not syntaxticaly. We don't want to reformat a project file  by file at a human level. We use automatic formater which apply the same coding style to each file.

* Reduce the level of noise to the minimum : before exploiting the data, we want to apply pre-processing before using them. For example, removing comment from a source file or homogenize the naming convention (e.g. CamelCase, lowercase and dash, ...). We want our data to me homogenous to prevent as much as possible noise's related problem.

### c)

* Contextual data : this are a data related to the product or the team. For example the team organization (experience, age,...), frequency of release, logs of the project,... These group kind of capture the human's element of the project, we could even consider the programming language and the technologies use for the project, since some people prefer using a particular programming language where another member of the team don't like it.

* Constraint data : this are the data related to the goals of the project and the constraint impose. For example, the targerted platforms, the user patience for a response, if there are already existing project to use or do we need to create a fully documented application with tutorial. The group capture the context of the project and the condition thats need to be fullfiled.
  
* Development data : this are the data related to the development process, verification, testing and code readiness. We can use various metrics like code coupling and cohesion, size of a commit (number of line changed, deleted, added), or the time needed to add a features.

## Exercise 2

### a)

Software data analytics is usefull if we want to improve or predict (not only...) efficiency and effectivity of software engineering during the software development and maintenance. One goal could be to use those data to provide data-driven features to an IDE, like to improve the code style of the project.

### b)

* Testing Practices : Software testing is hard and non-linear. For example, achieving an 100% at test coverage demands exponential time in function of the time needed to develop the product. Software data analysis could help us by indicating which part of the product need to be heavely tested or not. For example, we don't have to pass a lot of time on testing data class (e.g. Java Bean).
  
* Development Practices : each developer as a unique way of thinking and writing code. Some people like to provides a lots of comment and some not. But I don't think it is worthed to provide to much comment on a code. Comment must appear at very specific place, like using tricky algorithm (like Karastuba method :)) or when using magical value inside the code (like the 0x5f3759df inside the Carmack function). Imposing too much comment inside a code could even lead to a misunderstanding of the code (we don't test what we write in comment). Software data analisy could help use by indicating the place that needs a comment : magic number, tricky algorithm, ...

### c)

* Problem identification
* Collecting data
* Descriptive analysis
* Predictive analysis
* Performance evaluation