# S02

Author : Sylvain Julmy


## Exercice 1

### a)
* The language syntax is minimalist, everything is an object and everything is done by sending message, which lead to a very small programming language compared to Java which has around 50 keywords, mixing object and basic type, and operations are various (statements, control-flow, operator, methods call,...).
* Live updates allow us to update our system with restarting it, we can modify the classes at any moments.
* The IDE is provides directly by the language and allows us to easely share our own modification of the pharo environment without any problems.

### b)
With World->Save as, we can export the current image of our Pharo environment.

### c)
In Pharo, a message is similar to a method call in another language. We send a message to an object to perform a certain operation. There are three kind of message : binary, unary and keyword.

### d) 
A block is an object representing a function (like a lambda expression in another language). They can take arguments and have local variables.

## Exercice 2

### a)
We can send the message `subclassInstVarNames `, for example, all the subclass of the `Object` object :
```smalltalk
Object subclassInstVarNames do: [ :each | Transcript show: each; cr ]
```

### b)
A symbol is almost like a String except is it globally unique. For example, there is only one symbol #symbol but many string could have the value 'symbol'.

### c)
The body of the abstract methods should be `self subclassResponsibility` and if the subclass does not override it, an error happen.

### d)

Programm :
```smalltalk
[:scoreA :scoreB |
	(scoreA > scoreB ) 
		ifTrue: [ Transcript show: 'Player A won' ; cr]
		ifFalse: [
		(scoreA < scoreB ) 
			ifTrue: [ Transcript show: 'Player B won' ; cr ]
            ifFalse: [ Transcript show: 'Match is declared as draw' ; cr]
		]
] value:65 value:48
```

Output :
```
Match is declared as draw
Player B won
Player A won
```

## Exercice 3

Nothing...
