# S03

Late submission... I completely forgot to send the mail with this.

Author : Sylvain Julmy

## Exercise 1

### a) True
`self` and `super` refer to the same object since `super` is call in the context of an object.

### b) True
`Who new classy` give the `Metaclass class` and `Who new classy1` give `Metaclass class` too.

### c) True
`Who new classy1` give the `Metaclass class` and `Who new classy2` give `Metaclass class` too.

## Exercise 2

"To find all the abstract methods"
allMethods := Collection methods select: [ :each | each isAbstract].
"to print them all with the transcript"
allMethods do: [ :each | Transcript show: each ; cr ].

## Exercise 3

"Traditionally the root of an inheritance hierarchy is the class Object (since everything is an object). In Pharo, the root is actually a class called ProtoObject, but you will normally not pay any attention to this class. ProtoObject encapsulates the minimal set of messages that all objects must have and ProtoObject is designed to raise as many as possible errors (to support proxy definition). However, most classes inherit from Object, which defines many additional messages that almost all objects understand and respond to. Unless you have a very good reason to do otherwise, when creating application classes you should normally subclass Object, or one of its subclasses."

Source : https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/book-result/PharoObjectModel/PharoObjectModel.html

So the root class is `ProtoObject` and its the superclass of all objects in Pharo. As said, it owns the minimal set of message that every object should have. `Object` is contains way more messages.

## Exercise 4

```smalltalk
Transcript clear.

"Recover all the superclass of Collection"
collectionSuperclasses := Collection allSuperclasses.

"The total number of subclasses of Collection"
collectionSubclasses := Collection allSubclasses.

"Recover the direct subclass of Collection"
collectionDirectSubclasses := collectionSubclasses select: [ :each | each superclass == Collection ].

"Recover the indirect subclass of Collection"
collectionIndirectSubclasses := collectionSubclasses select: [ :each | each superclass ~~ Collection ].

Transcript  show: ('number of superclass : ', collectionSuperclasses size asString) ; cr ; 
            show: ('number of subclasse : ' , collectionSubclasses size asString) ; cr ;
            show: ('number of direct subclasse : ' , collectionDirectSubclasses size asString) ; cr ;
            show: ('number of indirect subclasse : ' , collectionIndirectSubclasses size asString) ; cr.
```

The transcript output is as follow :
```
number of superclass : 2
number of subclasse : 101
number of direct subclasse : 14
number of indirect subclasse : 87
```

The sum of the number of direct and indirect subclass is 101 which is 87 + 11. The two superclass of `Collection` are `Object` and `ProtoObject`.

## Exercise 5

`new` is defined in the `Behavior` class. When the `new` message is receive by the receiver, the receiver lookup in its metaclass chain, which contains, at the end of the chain, `Class`, `ClassDescription` and `Behavior`. `new` always return an instance of `self`, the receiver, even if it is defined in another class.