
# S05

Author : Sylvain Julmy

## Exercise 1

### a)

At first, code reading could be easy for some people that are familliar with the language. If someone know very well a language like Prolog for example, reading a code is way easier for him than for a people introduced to this language a few days ago.

I believe that reading code completely depends on some conditions :
* if the code is commented or not.
* if the code is well indented or not (obfuscated is an extreme case...).
* the paradigm used : declarative language are, in general, easier to read (like SQL).

So code reading is a problem when we are not familiar with the language or when someone don't want you to read the code : no comments, no indents, etc.
But code reading could be easy if we are familiar to the language or when the language is made to be read by a human : Domain Specific Language, Declarative Language, etc.

### b)

For my previous master thesis, I have design and develop and DSL (in Scala) to simplify IoT programming when we just want to collect some environment value (like temperatur or humidity) from a specific place, store them into a database and visualize them using graphs.

The point is that the user don't have to write low-level code to read raw value from the captors connected to a device (like arduino) and manually install databases and graphs visualization. Everything is done by the DSL Compiler and the user just have to describe the architecture. (link to the project : [APDL](https://github.com/SnipyJulmy/APDL)).

## Exercise 2

### a)
```smalltalk
DateAndTime>>#gtInspectorDateAndTime: composite
	<gtInspectorPresentationOrder: 20>
	composite morph
		title: 'Date';
		display: self year , '-' , self month , '-' , self day , ' ' , self hours , '-' , self minutes.
```

Note : I was not able to "attach" the extension to the class, so I haven't tested the code, but it is something like that (I think).